<strong><h2>Summary:</h2></strong>
<p>This repository encapsulates a comprehensive array of projects accomplished during the Fall 2023 Semester as part of CS3345 - Advanced Data Structures and Algorithms. Explore the intricacies of each project, gaining insights into the implementation, analysis, and optimization of advanced data structures and algorithms. Your exploration is welcomed, and any feedback or contributions are highly encouraged for the continual enhancement of this collaborative learning endeavor.</p>

<strong><h2>Project 1:</h2></strong> 
<p>This project involves the implementation of a memory management simulation using a linked list in Java. The main objective is to create a class named MemLinkedList that operates on nodes representing free or allocated memory blocks, along with their respective sizes. The implemented methods include allocating memory, releasing memory with merging capabilities, resetting the list to its initial state, and providing a demonstration of these functionalities in the main method. The submission requires the file MemLinkedList.java to be uploaded to the eLearning platform by the specified deadline.</p>

<strong><h2>Project 2:</h2></strong> 
<p>This project tasked me with enhancing the provided BinarySearchTree code by implementing various methods to analyze and manipulate binary search trees. The additions include functions to count nodes, check if the tree is full, compare structures with another tree, determine equality with another tree, create copies and mirrors of the original tree, check for mirror symmetry, and perform single rotations. Additionally, I was required to demonstrate the functionality of these methods through a main method and submit the modified BinarySearchTree.java file to the eLearning platform by the specified deadline.</p>

<strong><h2>Project 3:</h2></strong> 
<p>This project focuses on applying the heap data structure to simulate a printer's operation, prioritizing print jobs based on user priority and the number of pages. I was required to create a class named Printjob, representing a print job with user information, priority calculation, and Comparable implementation. A subclass, OutsidePrintjob, calculates costs based on 10 cents per page. The main class, Printer, reads an input file, creates objects for each print job, adds them to a priority queue using the BinaryHeap class, and prints the user's information along with optional cost for OutsidePrintjobs after deleting each job from the heap. The submission includes the files Printjob.java, OutsidePrintjob.java, and Printer.java to be uploaded to eLearning by the specified deadline.</p>

<strong><h2>Project 4:</h2></strong> 
<p>This project focuses on implementing the Disjoint Set data structure to generate and display a maze according to the algorithm discussed in Chapter 8 of the textbook. I was required to write a program that can either be a command-line or GUI application, allowing users to specify the number of rows and columns in the maze, up to 20x20. The implementation must utilize the DisjSet class from the textbook without modifications, and all work must be the student's own, without utilizing external solutions from the internet. The submission should include all *.java files and be uploaded to eLearning by the specified deadline.</p>
